This episode of Tekzilla is brought to you
by GoToAssist Express.
We received this question from Fredrick who
writes, "Video camcorders used to have a view
finder that you put your eye to. Nowadays
they have ditched that for a flip out screen.
When holding the camcorder against your face,
you have the weigh close to the center axis
of your body and this helps stabilize the
camcorder.
When you are forced to hold the camcorder
out in front of you, the hand movements get
bigger, image gets unstable and your arms
get tired. Any tips from you or your viewers
on how to hold a new camcorder?" - Frederick.
So Frederick after reading your question,
we figured it would be the perfect time to
haul out the old camera mule we use at CES.
So Roger tell us about your methodology for
holding camcorders for a long time.
Yes, as a camera mule for CES.
As a camera mule.
Well, it's interesting that Frederick mentions
the lack of view finders. Now, believe it
or not, this is actually one of the nice to
have features that they have cut out mainly
for cost but also because the touch screen
offers so many more options especially when
it comes to focusing and accessing various
functions on your camera.
Now when you have a camcorder this small,
the viewfinder isn't as cool as you would
think. In fact, oftentimes, they are a lot
poorer quality in terms of image as well as
information captured clean. In fact, the only
way you really use it is outdoors in sunlight.
So, back to his question, camcorder this small
when you use it, like this, traditionally,
this is actually not the most stable way to
hold a camcorder.
Yeah.
Mainly because you have one arm holding it
and you're doing this, even if you have it
against your face, you're still going to introduce
motion into the camera through your wrist.
Now as you can see, maybe for a minute it's
solid but after after a couple of minutes
you're going to start doing this and you're
going to get a little jitter in your image.
Now, traditionally what we have done in the
field with camcorders is sounds so professional
when you say it that way.
Well, this is...
In the field...
In the field of EAG...
...where they're following around CES.
People buy really expensive rigs in order
to kind of hold it out a little further spend
upwards of four to five hundred bucks. I prefer
doing it the human way by turning yourself
into a tripod.
Now, basically what you do is you take your
elbows and you pull them into your body. And,
you used two hands when you control the camcorder
in this case so you can actually hold the
body, or the base of the camera as well as
being able to access the rocker and the record
controls. Now, the thing about this is, let
me rotate to my side, when you start moving
you don't do this or this, you actually rotate
your entire torso from your waist and if you
want to pitch up, you pitch up with your entire
torso, you don't do this.
Now, this will allow you to gain more stability
because you're essentially turning your entire
your upper torso, into kind of a human tripod.
Got you.
Now, for situations situations where you're
trying to shoot long distance, if your camera
has image stabilization, that's a great function
to have. In fact, I would recommend anyone
who has it to turn it on. But if you can't
afford to do that, or say you're shooting
a parade - those things last for hours, literally
for hours - I would say you invest in a tri-pod.
Now, this is our manfrotto. This is kind of
one of the middle to upper tier tri-pods that
you can get. Now, one of the important things
to notice about it is the head is a fully
floating head, so if I need to, I can decouple
it right here. It has kind of a bowl shape,
and I will be able to kind of swing it around
depending on what I need to shoot.
Now the other important thing about this is
that I have a relatively fluid motion when
it comes to swinging. It's not jerky.
Yeah.
Now if you get some of the cheaper tri-pods
that people use for still cameras, as you
rotate it, as you bind the plastic, it starts
doing this. Not what you want. What you want
is a tri-pod that's stable at the same time
you can still move, depending on your situation.
Now, if you're in a situation where, say,
you're at a party or say you're trying to
get a bunch of people on the street and you
still want to be able to get a stable shot
but you're moving from place to place, you
want to get a mono pod.
You know, I've actually seen those being used
frequently at conferences where people are...
Yes. ...sitting and watching a presentation
of some kind. They just put it on a mono pod.
Yes.
Then they're holding it so there is not a
lot of range up and down because the person
is basically on the same plane the whole time.
Yes. And essentially it's the same thing because
what I've done is I've basically taken the
weight off my arm and I'm putting it on the
mono pod. And this allows me to to kind of
tighten up on a shot. And so I'm going to
hold it from the top instead of holding it
down here. You want to hold it toward the
top where the camera is so you get the most
leverage as well as most stability.
And when you're ready to move, you can keep
recording, just up and move it when you need
to. Now it's really important to understand
what you're shooting before you do any of
this, because oftentimes you go into a situation
where it's like, "Oh, you know, I will whip
out my camera and start shooting." And in
my last a couple of jobs ago, this is something
really annoying.
They would just take out the camera and they
would do this. This is the worst thing you
can do with a camera is doing this. "Oh look,
look, I got your face." No, what you want
to do is plan and, if you need to, physically
move up to the person and, again, use technique
where your arms are pulled into your body
and you're rotating and shifting with your
entire torso.
If you need to follow someone, say, like in
a race, what you want to do is anticipate
where they're going to end up, keep your body
pointed there, and then first lead and that
way your body kind of acts like a bungy cord
and it will kind of automatically pull you
through it.
Gotcha. I also like the mono pods because
they are very compact.
They are. In fact, I use it every time I go
to Comic-Con.
Nice. Very cool. All right, well, thank you
so much, Roger.
Sure.
These relatively expensive, these models,
but are there cheaper versions people can
get?
Yes. So, you can get a Vanguard mono pod,
and I put that up off Amazon for $33.
Oh, that's not bad at all.
And you can get a pretty good solid tri-pod.
Now this is pretty heavy duty for most people,
but you can get a pretty solid tri-pod for
about sixty or seventy bucks.
I'm sure you could probably whip up a pretty
good monopod with some stuff around the house
too, if you really need to.
You can, but you know what, some...in those
situations where you really want something
light and as well as sturdy, you know, thirty
bucks isn't actually much to ask. Not so bad.
Alright, there is more Tekzilla coming right
up but before we do that, it's time to thank
one of our sponsors.
Are you working in IT? Well, you know what,
if you don't have the best tools, it's like
being a surgeon without access to the best
medical equipment. Rusty scalpels make for
bad surgery, bad IT tools make well everything
more difficult for everyone involved. Clients
get unhappy; your life gets miserable.
That's why we think you should be using Go
To Assist Express by Citric, it's the best
remote support tool available. GoToAssist
Express is designed with speed and usability
in mind.... that makes it easy to get in,
diagnose and resolve the problem fast and
with unlimited use you can support all you
want for one flat fee.
That is affordable people. Want more affordable?
You're a Tekzilla viewer, so you can try GoToAssist
Express free for 30 days. To get this special
offer just visit gotoassist.com/tekzilla.
That's gotoassist .com/tekzilla for a free
trial, and you'll help keep Tekzilla coming
to you on the internet.
Oh my God!